.TH KSCANNER 1 "2026-06-27" "K-Scanner" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kscanner \- Linux memory auditing tool for RWX detection and forensic triage
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kscanner
[\fI--json\fR | \fI--csv\fR]
[\fI--live\fR \fIpid\fR \fIpattern\fR]
[\fI--bpf\fR]
[\fI--watch\fR]
[\fI--silent-jit\fR]
[\fI--yara\fR \fIrule.yara\fR]
[\fI--help\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
K-Scanner scans running processes on a Linux system for RWX
(read-write-execute) memory regions, a strong indicator of memory
corruption, injected shellcode, or live process manipulation.
It reads /proc/PID/maps to enumerate mapped regions and applies
multiple heuristics to filter out false positives (JIT engines,
system libraries, vDSO, etc.).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--json
Export results in JSON format (disables TUI).
.TP
.B \--csv
Export results in CSV format (disables TUI).
.TP
.B \--live \fIpid\fR \fIpattern\fR
Search for a regex pattern in the memory of a live process.
.IP
Example: \fBkscanner --live 1234 "password|secret"\fR
.TP
.B \--bpf
Enable eBPF real-time RWX telemetry (requires root and
kernel BPF support).
.TP
.B \--watch
Continuous headless monitoring mode (2-second scan cycles).
.TP
.B \--silent-jit
Suppress JIT engine RWX regions from alert count (reduces
false positives).
.TP
.B \--yara \fIrule.yara\fR
Scan forensic memory dumps with YARA rules. The \fByara\fR
binary must be installed and available in PATH.
.TP
.B \--help
Display this help message and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /proc/[PID]/maps
Source of memory mapping information.
.TP
.I /proc/[PID]/mem
Source for memory region dumping.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.B 0
on success, 1 on error or invalid arguments.
.SH BUGS
TOCTOU race conditions in /proc analysis are an inherent
limitation of live forensic analysis. See SECURITY.md.
.SH AUTHOR
Jefferson Cesar Antunes
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kverify (1),
.BR linspec (1),
.BR syscage (1),
.BR siren (1)
